# Welcome to the Golden Gate Relay (GGR)

## Dear runner,

This San Francisco Relay is "California's Longest Party." From Napa Valley to
Sonoma, Marin, Sausalito, across the Golden Gate Bridge at midnight, through
San Francisco, Palo Alto and Silicon Valley to the ocean. Featuring the beauty
of the Bay Area, the [course](http://therelay.com/co_maps.htm) boasts many
tourist destinations.

Each member on a team of 12 runs three legs in rotation. The 36 legs through 36
cities are 3 to 9 miles and rated easy to very hard allowing runners to select
legs that match their strengths. Runners of all abilities are challenged,
contribute and have a great time.

## Historical beginning

"Indian Tribes Will Participate in Great California Marathon" declared the
Sausalito News on April 2, 1927. As "the longest endurance contest ever," the
480-mile foot race through 7 counties between Sausalito and Grants Pass,
Oregon, commemorated the beauty of the Redwood Empire. Teams from nine tribes
competed for $2,775 in gold. Signal fires and tribesmen performing age-old
dances greeted runners along the way. After many battled for the lead, Mad Bull
from the Karook tribe finished in 7 days, 12 hours and 34 minutes.

## The Golden Gate Relay

Much has changed since 1927, yet similarities remain. A fire at Point Reyes
billowed smoke through Marin and Sonoma signaling the start of the GGR in 1995.
Showcasing the San Francisco area through seven counties, nine teams ran from
Calistoga to Santa Cruz. Runners dance along the way. The "waiting for the
porta-potty" dance is especially popular.

## Why a relay?

The Latin derivation of competition is seeking our best with the help of
others. A relay is not about being the fastest, but learning what it takes to
be a winner. The focus is 12 runners working together, giving their best for
the team. Surmounting adversity, helping teammates and other teams, running in
the moonlight and making special friends are all part of the GGR romance. After
entering 6 teams, Google commented that the Golden Gate Relay was a fantastic
team building experience by reinforcing values that employees need to create a
winning company.

## With [Organs R Us](http://therelay.com/re_orupledge.pdf)(ORU), the Golden Gate Relay promotes donation

Since 1995, the transfer of the baton from runner to runner has symbolized the
transfer of an organ from donor to recipient. The GGR has been
[dedicated](http://therelay.com/re_dedication.htm) to transplant recipients,
candidates, organ donors and donor families participating as runners, walkers,
volunteers and guests.

## Support 125,000 americans waiting for organs as a runner or volunteer

Discus your personal wishes regarding organ donation with your family. Register
online as an organ donor. Since 18 die each day before an organ is available,
solicit [online donations](http://therelay.com/or_fundraising.htm) and/or ask
your employer to match your entry fee with a tax-deductible contribution to
[ORU](http://therelay.com/re_ORUPledge.pdf).

## Fierce rivalry

[Google 1](http://therelay.com/ru_results.htm) will defend its many GGR
championships against Apple, Facebook, Stanford, Twitter, Yahoo! and others.
With four Olympians, the [2000 Sportbrain](http://therelay.com/ru_results.htm)
team set the course record of 17 hrs., 55 min. [Team
Dean](http://therelay.com/re_press.htm) (Karnazes) has won fifteen ultra
titles.

## Teamwork

It will take strength, strategy and endurance to reach the finish. It will take
cooperation, sensitivity and understanding to travel many miles with sweaty
bodies. Conquer as a team what few dare to face alone. Quench your thirst for
challenge and discovery while celebrating life, running and teamwork.
